what's up this your boy Wyclef Jean and
y'all watching impact theory let's get
into it
I love Tom there's a man who which is on
a mission to find the best in humanity
and then make it known to the world it
was honestly one of the best things I've
ever done in my life
you know allowing me to be authentic to
who I am this show allowed me to do that
so it's great you better subscribe to
this show cuz you're missing out it's
absolutely unbelievable
it was a lot of fun I was really
impressed with the prep work it was able
to get into things that I actually care
about that people don't put in that had
to work and to know that he does that
not just for me but for everybody I
totally get why exists I totally get why
used to continue to exist and I almost
didn't want to end
hi I'm Peter Diamandis everybody my name
is Jessica Matthews hey I'm dr. drew
gary vay-ner-chuk and you're watching
impact theory
welcome everybody to after impact this
is the show where tom bill you and i
unpack the impact of the episode this
week with olympia Lapointe and guess
what you're starting with me because Tom
is over here we're having some
microphone issues that we're trying to
get sorted out so you're stuck with me
for a few moments thank you for joining
us on YouTube live and Facebook live
this is the show as you know where we go
deep we ask questions about the episode
when we really try to understand the
ideas that were expressed ask your
questions we're doing it on Friday this
week which is atypical we usually do
this show on Wednesday but we wanted to
try this time out to see if this give
you gave you a little bit more time to
watch the episode think about it digest
it and then really join our conversation
and ask your questions so let us know in
the comments if you think this is a
better day for you or if you prefer it
on Wednesday we would love to hear all
right our guest this week is Olympia
Lapointe hopefully you checked out her
episode it's pretty incredible her story
is super inspiring
she started sorry actually what she is
now today is a rocket scientist it's
just a little bit distracting really
trying to focus with you guys she's a
rocket scientist who launched 28
missions helped NASA launch 20 missions
from years in 1980 1998 to 2007 and she
essentially helped those missions not
explode so she is mathematics expert and
also a rocket scientist she's also a
public speaker currently who inspires
audiences all over and she's the author
of the books matha phobia and the newly
released answers unleashed so definitely
check her out if you get a chance but
she didn't start that way she she
started in a very different place you
grew up in South Los Angeles and now I
think the microphone is in front of the
camera now you really haven't fun with
us here
she started grew up in South Los Angeles
in very difficult circumstances
you know single-parent home didn't have
a lot of opportunities growing up and
she essentially built her life from that
starting point and has an amazing story
about what she did to her mind and her
decision-making process to get there and
we're gonna dive into that as soon as we
get the mics situated but until then
we'll just say thanks again for joining
us a couple of quick announcements that
we have going on so this week we
launched the Alexis skill on Amazon the
Amazon echo so if you have an Amazon
echo or an Amazon echo dot go and enable
the tom bill you skill you can now get
motivation from Tom in your Flash
briefing every single day it's going to
be recorded unique content that you
can't get anywhere else
so if you have one of those devices go
check it out we're really investing in
voice because we think there's a lot of
opportunity there and it's a new and
exciting platform and we think that's
the direction a lot of things will go so
if you have one of those devices go
please go check out the skill Tom has a
microphone now hey hey everybody I feel
like an old school sports announcer I am
Howard Cosell today it's good to be
joining the show what was great as I was
trying to give the announcements like
everything was literally falling apart
right here off yeah it's incredible you
did a very good job kind of super
impressive it went from bad to worse it
did go from bad to worse yeah so last
minute changes are always very dangerous
and lesson learned so yeah okay so those
are our announcements Alexa skill and
this is a new time for after impact so
if you enjoy it please leave that in
comments if you'd rather have it on
Wednesday let us know and we can kick it
off so I want to talk about Tom
Olympia's story if you could give a
quick recap of kind of where she started
and then just hear from you why her
story and stories like hers resonate
with you so much well it this is super
interesting for me in a personal level
because she
so the kid that I used to bigbrother for
is a kid named Rashawn and he grew up in
the exact area that she grew up in
south-central right around USC it was
really cool to hear her tell that story
about part of what became that beacon of
hope for her was that she saw the kids
going to USC and so she knew there was
something else she knew there was like
something beyond her circumstances and
if she could like grab on to that thing
which you know education then she might
be able to get out of her circumstances
and that was how I felt working with
rashon like I wanted him to see that
there was another world and it's oh man
it's interesting I never thought of this
before but it's really it's a lot like
when people talk about okay there's more
dimensions than the four dimensions that
we think of that make up you know space
time right and I'm always like how the
hell do you like how is that possible
how can there be something like right
here right now and I just don't see it
experience it whatever and that is for
her growing up right by USC that's it
like outside of the walls of that school
you were in one of the worst areas in
the country
yeah but inside the walls of that school
you're in this just beautiful campus
this place of unimaginable knowledge and
I mean this was when I was there was
before the internet so it was like
having all these libraries in so many
books and you felt like for any Game of
Thrones fans out there you know you feel
like Sam who's at the you know studying
to be a maester and it's like all these
books and in a time where that was just
incredible rare exactly uh so for her to
be that close to an entirely different
world or an entirely different dimension
if you want to think of it like that is
really really fascinating so it becomes
this beacon for her so when I think
about what we're trying to do at impact
Theory its to bring more people inside
that wall to make content that's
available to anybody that anybody can
access and then get out of their
circumstance to move from one dimension
to the other to understand that there's
a per meal membrane between all of this
and that membrane is your mindset and
that you can I don't know why I'm going
deep on this like biology thing here but
you can like cross the membrane right
and it's actually very very easy
it's very very simple it's not easy and
it takes an incredible amount of work
and she is a story of somebody who put
in that work and so this story resonates
with me on a lot of levels one it's so
familiar to me the places that she's
talking about the people that she's
seeing and then on top of that she is
exactly the kind of person that I want
to reach and I used to refer to this
when I was back at Quest is mining for
astronauts I got so close if I'd called
it mining for rocket scientists I would
be losing my mind right now because that
was that was like my thing if these kids
could be the next astronaut they could
be the next Einstein they could be like
whatever they want
there's unimaginable raw I hate using
the word talent but I don't have a like
humans as a data processing machine as a
as a machine as something that's capable
of being programmed to do extraordinary
things but they have to be programmed
right and so whatever software they get
will determine the effectiveness of the
hardware but the hardware is
unbelievable in its potential yeah and
it really was in this time that I became
obsessed with this notion of there's a
difference between having potential and
then doing something with it she's done
something with her potential and so
that's what I find so extraordinary and
to get people a little more detail on
her story so grows up in the inner
cities was not like somebody that just
she's not like that
undiscovered 190 IQ right like she
really struggled and she failed algebra
she failed geometry she failed calculus
and chemistry and through all of that
though begins to think like okay I I
still failed but I feel like I'm getting
it I feel like I'm beginning to
understand something that I didn't
understand yesterday that if I take
people up on their offers for tutoring
or whatever which is one of the story
she tells in the episode that I feel
like I could really do something and so
she keeps putting in the work and
putting in the work and putting in the
work and never getting discouraged by
how seemingly bad she is and that's so
cool like and and man that that is what
makes her extraordinary like somehow she
was able to see through that to be
excited about getting out to be excited
about what she could learn enough to
fight through to actually gain the
skills
yeah I love the story and I want to go a
little bit deeper on environment and the
role that it plays and like you said
when you were doing the Big Brother
program you were trying to bring that
person into a new environment and it
sounds like that really flipped a switch
for Olympia and seeing you know people
at the University and then later going
on to when she was able to go to the
magnet school in a different
neighborhood and seeing that
neighborhood and I know that it's like
it's changed me on levels too of just
going from you know growing her
Bakersfield to then moving to a bigger
city like Los Angeles or even in your
experience coming from Tacoma Washington
and then coming down to Los Angeles so
what do you think it is about really
changing your environment that can
completely reframe how you think about
the world what an unexpected and lovely
question so when I was in right before I
met Lisa I was gonna move to New York
and this was sort of the height of I
don't know how the hell I'm gonna break
into filmmaking like where am I going
with my life I don't want to be a
teacher forever like what do I do and
there is something so innate to humans
to like want to change your environment
to have some drasi and maybe not for
everybody because most people live and
die three miles from the weather born I
cannot believe that's true and then I
think about my parents who spent you
know with the brief exception it's very
cool they lived in Japan for a while my
dad was in the military my sister was
born in Japan as weird as that is and
but they until my dad recently when he
retired then he moved quite far but
until then like they lived my mom still
lives walking distance from where she
grew up which is like crazy town to me
and my dad live very very close so it
some people have that thing me included
where when you feel lost hopeless
whatever like your instinct is radically
change your environment and part of it
is the sense of adventure and part of it
is just understanding that we all
respond to our environment we all
respond to the people that are around us
and there's either for me it was
intuitive because I didn't have like a
clear sense of my emotional state is
built by the people that I'm around like
I didn't understand that but I knew that
like I just want to change now the
problem
is when you change your mind follows you
and if you don't understand the process
of intentional rebuilding you're gonna
find yourself in the same loops so and
and that being echoed in my own life I
didn't end up leaving but I changed the
person that I was spending the most time
with and then we got into this really
virtuous cycle of self-improvement which
I may not have ever gotten into had I
not met Lisa
so changing the people that you hang out
with I think is certainly more important
than changing the environment but often
changing the environment intentionally
or otherwise changes the people got it
yeah it's correlated I see I also want
to talk about education because one of
the things that really helped Olympia
was going you know she said going to
that magnet school and she described it
then I was around geniuses I was around
people who were brilliant I was learning
from them every day she was learning at
the school and then she later got
tutored by someone in calculus is
education also a method to sort of
change your circumstances and talk about
the differences now between like the
traditional educational path and other
sources of Education so give me the the
exact words used for the first part of
the question is as you changing your
environment is education the way to
change your circumstance was so it can
be and here's what I find really
interesting I don't think there's a
one-size-fits-all to the answer of the
education conundrum I'll call it a
conundrum so for me because I was so
lazy going to school and having crushing
expectations was part of what allowed me
to buckle down and really work hard so
there was a confluence of things
happening in my mind one I had cheated
my way through high school and that
didn't make me feel good about myself it
didn't make me feel bad though if I'm
honest yeah it didn't it didn't make me
feel good and I had this sense of okay I
feel like you were learning in high
school though or were you just we're
just kind of going through the motions
no no I felt like I was so I I was young
and stupid let's really start with that
so I'm not reinforcing what I believed
then but this is what I believed at the
time that they weren't teaching me
things that I cared about or
was going to need in the future so I
felt this like the arrogance of being
young and saying like these adults don't
know anything they've totally lost touch
like why are they making me learn this
and in fairness to kids like if the
teacher doesn't know how to explain why
it's going to be useful like that's
really I think that's a critical thing I
think teachers man if you want to have a
major impact stop and really come up
with true and amazing answers to why do
I need to know this and by the way like
don't be afraid if the answer is you
don't
then those are the things that we need
to change alright I don't want to go too
far afield I'm not an expert in that at
all but so this is where my mindset was
as a child they're not teaching me the
things that I'm actually gonna need and
I I had a very strong sense when I was
younger that getting to understand
people was really important and so I
felt like I was getting to understand
people that I was spending my time
engaging with other people that so I
wasn't just sitting in my room listening
to music there was a lot of that but I
was also like connecting with people
spending a lot of time talking on the
phone like admittedly partly because
like it was mostly women and like I was
terrible with women but nonetheless
obsessed and but in that I be I really
got into because when you're the nice
guy who listens you become like the
place everybody goes to like deal with
their major dramas and at the time I'm
thinking that the best way I will bring
it all back round I'm feeling like the
best way is to to get lay it is to like
read Cosmo and understand women and
listen to their problems and like I was
captain friendzone and but in that I
actually spent an obscene amount of
hours like really trying to listen and
understand to people that were going
through significant turmoil in their
life it was the first moment where I got
introduced to how many people are
contemplating suicide
and so like going through that process
and all that was very interesting so
this is all like going on in my head but
when I go to to college I'm like okay
well this I have picked a major and the
school that is supposedly going to teach
me exactly what I want to be great at
and I'm gonna be taking on debt to do it
so like you
what you were saying in high school is
real then you need to buckle down and if
what you were saying in high school was
[__] you need to buckle down
right cuz either way if I was just being
lazy taking on debt and not paying
attention to the thing that I supposedly
care about wouldn't make sense and if it
was real and now I'm learning the things
that I actually want to learn then I
need to actually learn it I need to
actually get good at it and I did have a
sense of when I get into the real world
and I'm grateful for this and I have no
idea why I believe this to the core of
my being it may have had something to do
a stand-up comedy where you're either
funny or you're not I knew I actually
have to get good at film like I actually
have to be good and if I'm not good I'm
gonna be in real trouble so I better
really pay attention so getting there
was very much a way of changing my
circumstances and getting me to think
and and be and something else and then
the second part of your question was
just the differences between the
traditional is morality so here's here's
why this is a real conundrum so like I'm
saying for me it was I needed that
structure not necessarily everybody does
but I needed this structure to make sure
that I buckled down and really began to
learn for somebody who's self-directed
self guided there's you're probably like
a self-starter entrepreneur you're way
better off just go actually build a
business go intern go like work your way
from the ground up I learned way more
about filmmaking by doing it and I
learned way more about business Jesus by
a factor of a hundred by doing it then
anybody's gonna learn I've talked to
MBAs who are fresh out of school and
they know fuck-all
so it's like and I get it right they're
a it's hard be it's not the the majority
of the teachers won't have spent their
time building businesses you do get them
for sure and that that is that has to be
unimaginably useful but it's still a
very protected safe environment it is
not the market slapping you around and
telling you that something does or
doesn't work it isn't employees where
you are not able to help them actuate
themselves within your company and so
there's all kinds of problems that are
breaking out because of that so there's
just
no substitute for actually doing it but
that wouldn't have worked for me because
I wasn't a self-starter yet so I needed
that so it when I spoke to so I was
interviewed recently by somebody that
took on eight hundred and twenty five
thousand dollars in debt to become an
orthodontist and that is so terrifying
I can't imagine ever encouraging
somebody to do that in fact I'll just
say right now if you're taken much north
of like $100,000 in debt like it doesn't
seem worth it
maybe for a lawyer or something but like
if if money is meaningful to you how
about that if living a life that is
devoid of money stresses is meaningful
to you I don't see how you make it work
yeah cool we're about 20 minutes in I
want to remind everyone we're doing
Facebook and YouTube live for after
impact we're talking about a little bit
of a point in her episode that aired on
Tuesday we're doing this on Friday we
don't typically do it on Friday we
usually on Wednesday so if you prefer it
on Friday let us know in the comments so
that we can change up our schedule
accordingly we wanted to give people
more time to actually watch the episode
digest it and then have some thoughts to
participate in the comments but if it's
just too many days and now it's past you
and you've forgotten all the lessons
learned from that episode then go back
and watch the episode there you go and
one option is to write down your
questions as you're going through the
episode so that you have them there I
also want to comment on the shirt you're
wearing yeah but you realized is a
unreleased shirt no man and he's like
Mad Love - will who designed this bad
boy yeah it's back to shirt I like this
so that's a little teaser everyone for
the coming we have a store a new store
color sorry collection launch happening
in a couple of weeks so you'll be able
to get that shirt and a few others that
are pretty awesome and we did a really
cool photography session you know us to
call that for the clothes which I'm
really really excited about do we have
Lindsey's can we drop that in like the
comments her website so this is somebody
who's a fan of the show and wrote in she
actually wrote in to say hey I've
already done these photos are already
featured on the website from the
previous photoshoots she did we were all
like super blown away even the story of
the model that she used was unbelievably
cool very impact Theory and she wanted
to do something more to really help and
show her support which is just
absolutely incredible
so please please boys and girls let's
drop her website into the feed because
our debt of gratitude to Lindsay knows
no bounds she's been really really
incredible and then just yesterday she
did a whole photo shoot with Lisa for
Lisa's social feed and I saw I've seen
exactly one photo from the back of the
camera holy hell like really really cool
so she's a very talented photographer
that were super honored that has been so
gracious for us let's drop her social
handles in there tears filled no more I
just punched myself about the microphone
yeah cool all right here's a question
from Manuel or so or Sony oh and this is
a question that I actually had as well
Tom do you agree with Olympia about
focusing on the negative to see what we
must avoid here's the thing she's
bringing it up in terms of rocket
science and so I am NOT going to say
that I know anything about it so if she
tells me that you need to focus on the
negative for what could go wrong in the
case of rocket science absolutely in
terms of your real life no I think that
people should be utterly surprised when
things go wrong why because I'm trying
to combat the natural tendency for
humans to obsessively think about things
so you're not just going to quickly run
through how things could go wrong you're
going to obsessively go over and over
and over and over how things could go
wrong and that's what leads to anxiety
and so when people obsessively think
about all the different ways that it
could go wrong you're prepared for it
but you're now hardwiring anxiety and
that is so much more detrimental than
planning for the bad things is positive
that 100% like people should be focusing
obsessively on all the ways that it
could go right and so they talked about
in race car driving
your car's gonna go wherever your head
goes so if you look at the barrier you
will crash in to the barrier it's
guaranteed so you have to just ignore
the [__] barrier and look where you
want to go you will steer towards that
and I think in life that is absolutely
true and I get it on paper it makes
sense to think through all the
eventualities and people that are high
in conscientiousness which according to
Vanessa fen Edwards is exactly that like
thinking through all the ways that
things could go wrong pre-planning
making lists all that but it just isn't
how you grow and accomplish something
extraordinary just not she should say
one thing that I thought was an
interesting nuance to that comment and
that was it can be a tool for if you
don't understand what you want then
looking at what you don't want could be
a way to say okay well this I want the
opposite of this so that's there's a way
to sort of narrow down so what do you
think about that saying like I don't
like where do I want to be in five years
I'm not really sure well let's think
about where I don't want to be in five
years I can definitely identify those
and then work backwards what ends up
happening from that in reality is people
do nothing and until you know what you
want until you are chasing something
with hunger and desperation in fact I
was just recording Alexa content and I
talked about this concept which I was
reading about and it look it's an echo
of a hundred other people have talked
about this but reading about perennial
seller by Ryan holiday this concept of
you will never create a masterwork until
it is no longer a want it's a need so if
people don't even know what they want
let alone have turned it into a crushing
need something that they must bring into
this world you will never get there that
is that is the truth and look at the
world how many people are actually doing
what they want it it is vanishingly Slim
vanishingly Slim and the reason is
people don't take the [__] time to
understand you're not going to turn in
and see something that oh my god I've
wanted this whole thing my whole life
and I just didn't realize like that is
such horseshit you're gonna turn inward
you're gonna see a minor area of
interest if you don't do the work to
turn that into the blazing Inferno that
is your need then you're never gonna
need anything in which case you're
I'm gonna [__] derail for a second
this is something that is so interesting
to me and then you will bring us back
the way that people think I have
tomorrow the way that today is so finite
and so like just like another day and
tomorrow will have more potential people
don't create the momentum in their life
and I'm doing a really bad job of
explaining this bear with me because I
really want people to understand this
concept you're getting [__] by the
fact that today seems so inconsequential
that today is just one of many and that
it's a Friday and you know what like I'm
gonna hit it hard on Monday and and that
sense of like it's it's so just one of
many that people don't buckle down and
say I have to do this right now today
this is why like when people use the
word patience I go [__] crazy I want
to crawl out of my skin because you will
roll yourself into this sense of like I
got something done today that's great
but you know what I need to be patient I
need to understand this is gonna take a
lot of time dude it's gonna take a lot
of time if you go balls to the wall
every day going all-out like a freak
trying to make everything happen right
now it will still take a long time so if
people don't put that kind of intensity
into developing a passion into
developing something that they that is
like a crushing me bike it has to happen
everyday will lull them into this sense
of tomorrow tomorrow tomorrow tomorrow
and so they never [__] do anything
you've got it every now and then I've
said this to you before every now and
then I'll have a terrible night's sleep
because when I'm going to bed I am so
enraged by the need for sleep because I
like I get it I need it I understand
that but I resent so much that I need to
stop doing the things that I I'm doing
because I want to do them they're fun
for me like I enjoy and I want I want to
make sure people understand that because
when they hear me like go off on this
they think oh my god like this he's like
demented and like oh I feel bad for
I love what I do so and I end up having
a bad night's sleep because I I so
resent it that I'm waking up every hour
like can I get up yet can I get up yet
can I get up yet find that thing it's
gonna be an area of interest build it
into a fascination build it into a
passion and then every day go after it
so hard because if you don't it will
slip into this endless tomorrow that's
amazing what would you say to someone
who maybe doesn't have is not
obsessively thinking about a moonshot
like something as grand as your vision
but is very happy with their day-to-day
what they do in their job in their life
with their family or whatever it is and
their content that you're already there
like there's nothing else yeah they've
100% like understand that I'm talking to
people that aren't where they want to be
yeah don't know where they want to go
right so they have this sense of I'm
talking to me at 22 with my face buried
in the carpet feeling lost and hopeless
and that feeling sucks so much I would
have done virtually anything to get out
of that and have and my whole life has
been moving away from that and moving
towards what I want to create like
that's it and it's that that dual action
of making sure I never feel like that
again and then loving what it feels like
to so I bought the domain probably
almost 15 years ago now seeking power
and if people didn't misunderstand what
I mean by the word power the name of
this company would be seeking power and
that is that position of realizing that
you can actually gain real skills that
actually can change the world and I I
don't mean that in like the grandiose
sense I just mean it can actually
incrementally make things better and
that is that is a position that is the
greatest gift that a human can ever
receive is to feel on an emotional level
how powerful that is that wherever you
want to go you can make it happen love
it
alright I think I want to do a quick
announcement about our upcoming contest
haven't launched it yet let's do it but
here's the deal we just crossed a
hundred thousand subs on YouTube thank
you everyone on YouTube
everyone who subscribed there it was a
great and big milestone for us and we're
very appreciative but we're not gonna
sit back and chill so we want to go
harder we want to blow this thing out as
much as we can so we're launching a
contest that is a referral program so
it's refer friend to impact theory and
we have a big prize you want to talk
about the price I do so first of all
let's talk about why a hundred and
fifteen thousand so we celebrated a
hundred thousand on Facebook our
Facebook and our YouTube are very very
close to each other it didn't make sense
to celebrate both so the goal that we
set for ourselves which was much more
aggressive was 115,000 on YouTube by
October first and this is where you have
to be really honest with yourself and
look at what's happening so we had a lot
going on last couple weeks and our
contest to get we had originally planned
to do a contest to a hundred thousand on
YouTube because psychologically people
just get it right so even Lisa today was
saying 115 is such a random number but
it's the true number and so we were
gonna do the contest to get to a hundred
hoping that we would blow past it that
the contest would be successful enough
that we'd blow past it and be working
our way towards 115 by October 1st and
we realized you and I sat down and said
we're not gonna make it and you'd run
the math and it was like okay given our
sort of just organic growth we'll be at
about a hundred and eight thousand by
October first and when you set goals and
then don't do something to achieve them
like that trains either your nervous
system or in this case it would train
the team that we set a goal but hey if
we miss it no big deal like we had set a
goal to have the first comic books out
in October and I can already tell
not gonna happen I'm gonna beat the [__]
out of myself for that one cuz that
that's on me and Sun and anybody else so
I can't even like give you guys a hard
time so don't think that will go
unpunished
so we set a goal to hit 115 thousand by
October 1st and for anybody that's new
to the community the reason that that is
so important is booking the show is very
very hard and poor dr. finesse has that
role sitting squarely on his shoulders
and his big ask for us is every person
that we get into specifically YouTube
because that's where most people go when
he reaches out to somebody's agent or
whatever it says hey we want to get you
on the show they immediately go to
youtube to see how many subs we have and
every day that that number is I'm just
gonna say less than a million you've got
a problem
so to get the show where we want to get
the show to have the kind of impact that
we want to have on the world blah blah
blah like we have to get those numbers
up so that's why 115 by October 1st it's
very important to have a goal that is
attainable but hard so 115 was
attainable but hard 100 was not only
attainable as a foregone conclusion in
fact I think were already at like
hundred in 2000 so didn't want to throw
it in the dirt didn't want it like 150
and then it's like there's no way we're
gonna reach it and so nobody even tries
so 115 seemed like the real number so
the giveaway so when we did the 24 hour
impact athon we tried to give away a
whole bunch of stuff and people kept
trading it in for time with me so what
were what we want to do the main prize
is and this is to our global audience
so anybody anywhere out there the prize
is for referring friends every time that
you refer a friend you get one more of
your name entered into the Hat
essentially so the more people you refer
the more entries into the Hat more
likely are to win and it is a flight to
Los Angeles to spend a day with me and a
nights hotel accommodation so that's the
grand prize and we have two runner-up
prizes which is a prize pack which you
probably know the details better the
prize back it'll have audible
subscriptions an echo dot books swag
impact three swags we're put
not together now but the contest is
really how far can we go with this and
115 is our internal number but like
that's not where we're stopping that's
just the contest is gonna go I think for
three weeks we're gonna go as hard as we
can and as fast as we can to really
share this content with a larger
audience and help more people word so
yeah
115 is sort of if we don't hit that we
have officially failed right so but
details to come so check in on Facebook
check in on Instagram we will be
launching it today we don't have
everything pulled together yet so we
can't send you anywhere now but we will
have it soon we'll probably drop it in
the description to this video later as
well
word up nice okay not too many comments
our questions coming in today so guys if
you have questions about the episode or
other questions around some of these
ideas please drop them in the comments
so that Tom can answer them here's
here's a question I have for you so one
of the things that Olympia credits to
her success is that she had people in
her life who believed that she could
have a different future so the first was
her mother and then I think it was
someone at school or maybe her tutor who
said oh no the the story about the the
surgeon or the the doctor who sewed her
face up after she was cut yeah it's
weird I don't think that the reference
to the because I sin the interest is she
was stabbed in the face she was stabbed
in the face and either she doesn't say I
think we cut it out for some reason but
when she got punched the kid had been
sharpening he had a ring and he
sharpened it so and this is like at
10:00 and he was in a gang which is
crazy but happens and so when he punched
her in the face it like lacerated her
cheek right below her eye so if you
haven't seen the episode she goes to the
doctor to get sewed up and he says I did
this in a perfect straight line so that
one day when you're on TV and you're
telling your story it's not you know
it's not gonna look as bad it will just
be a nice straight line or you could
cover it up somehow and that just like
totally flipped a switch in her brain
that one day I could be on TV yeah and I
thought that was so cool so how what is
it about having people in your life who
who can paint that different future for
you I mean this is my obsession with
belief system man like the movie The
Matrix is about one thing belief when
neo doesn't believe he can make the jump
he can't now that's not really important
what's important is that that is a true
representation of what humans are really
like which is what makes that movie so
great it really captures the human
experience and when a doctor which dude
back in Sochi and I roughly the same age
so when we were growing up in the 80s
first of all doctors were like revered
they were like the ultimate in success
and I remember in the 80s you
essentially like if you want to be rich
whether got into film and TV or you
became a doctor like that was just the
notion I had no idea I didn't even know
what a banker was I didn't know what
Finance was like I don't understand any
of that so but you understood a doctor
so when a doctor told you something was
possible like they were the height of
intelligence they were the height of
success and so for a doctor to say to
her like like the what they call a
presumptive close when you're on TV
right so it's just assumed that it like
all whatever hurdles there are between
her and TV they're gone and he didn't
say if one day you're ever on TV he said
when you're on TV and she just thought
whoa like I could be on TV that's crazy
like how cool is that so that's one of
the things that really sits at the core
of impact theory is getting people to
believe that a future is possible for
them so making sure that people and this
is why it's so important and lisas just
like obsessed you want to talk about a
need she has a need to show young girls
a new future because that was something
she did not have as a kid so really
making sure that people see themselves
that they see that someone like them can
go on and have that kind of successes is
just incredible because it lays the
foundation of a belief system which will
infiltrate every thought you have after
mmm yeah definitely I feel like it's
something that we it's part of the
culture here I would say is that we we
talk about things like who when you're
talking about the company when we're
bigger than
Disney when we have this many people in
our community when we're changing
people's lives in this way and it's it's
a subtle it's it's it's a very subtle
thing but it's very powerful will you
let me like go off on that for a second
yeah you can't imagine how many people I
meet that are they're like successful
they've accomplished stuff and they're
bigger than us right now and then I go
and speak to them and I can see like I
am making them rethink what they're
capable of because we're smaller than
them but our dream is so much bigger and
they won't even let themselves say out
loud that they would want that same
thing and I can see this dual conflict
of do I think this guy's an idiot or am
i inspired by how big he's willing to
think and because I say things like that
and I say them with confidence and I'm
totally assured of it only not because I
actually like know somewhere in my heart
I just know that's how the mind works
and if I don't say that reinforce that
believe it act in accordance with it
keep pushing forward like it won't
happen and when you think about self
sabotage all self sabotage is is you're
getting either nervous about the fall
right so well if I get that far because
everybody knows that life is ups and
downs right so if I get that high like
I'm terrified of falling down or I'm
terrified of being disappointed or like
they're just scared like there's some
thing in the lizard brain or wherever it
resides that that does worry about like
putting yourself in the into the
position of being the target right so if
you're the Alpha well there's always
somebody coming after you and some
people just they don't want that life of
stress and so there's always gonna be
that voice that tells you you couldn't
do it there's always gonna be the voice
that says yeah that is absurd that
person that wants to like go for that is
ridiculous
but I I can't say this [__] enough
and I want to become known for the
following statement humans lead with
belief we lead with belief Jared you
can't do something that you don't
believe is possible to figure out I'm
not when I say that we're gonna be
bigger than Disney I'm not saying
already no [__]
do it I don't have no idea and I know
I'm gonna get lost a hundred times along
the journey I [__] know that but what
I know is humans are capable of getting
the information that they need and if
you believe that you can learn what you
need to learn in order to become bigger
than Disney then you actually can
so being relentless in that and pursuing
and going after and having that need
that is crushing it so you keep pushing
like that's how this [__] happens and
people just they don't allow themselves
to acknowledge that you have to force
yourself to believe that you can figure
it out and without that I never go
anywhere that's awesome
can you talk a little bit about how you
cultivated that way of thinking and I
know I think at one point you mentioned
Peter Diamandis and I may be totally
misinterpreting but helping you think
even bigger than your or anything
yeah reading bold and abundance dude
that my biggest mentors in life have
been authors and I had read Peters but I
wanted Peter on the show because I'd
read his books and I was like holy hell
the way this guy thinks is unreal and
when you understand that he launched the
XPrize without the prize money he
launched the XPrize without the prize
money but he was just convinced that if
he stayed at it long enough hard enough
that he could find the money and he does
and I mean at launch like the guy
started like nineteen companies it's
crazy and they profitable and big and
just it's nuts I think he's raised at
least a billion dollars it may be
multiple billions of dollars for the
different companies and is like like
it's nuts now how did I cultivate that
because Peter was sort of one thing in
that journey and what I think makes the
way that I think useful to other people
is I have always always always tried to
figure out what is real what is real
about the human condition so humans lead
with belief that's not fake it till you
make it that's [__] real it is how
humans work so I'm not saying it should
be that way I'm just saying it is that
way and if you don't believe that
you can learn it I want to make sure
people understand that I'm not saying
believe you're the best in the world
you're not but you can become the best
in the world because the human is an
adaptation machine for a very simple
reason nature makes a decision with
every creature that it creates am I
going to hardwire this from the
beginning right full believe that's how
you say it a baby horse comes out can
already walk humans cannot so it they
made the decision cool we're gonna
hardwire this and but that means that
it's limited in its options moving
forward because so much of its brain is
taken up with hardwiring humans on the
other hand are malleable so we can go in
any direction but that means that we're
born a lump of flesh that has to be
taken care of and looked after for years
and years and years it's crazy but that
gives us this amazing ability to pick a
direction to go in it to change
direction go in another direction so we
are like the ultimate blank slate you're
not entirely blank I get that but so
much more compared to other animals and
so to fail to take advantage of that to
me is just the ultimate waste of
potential all right let's see here
here's a question so Olympia she failed
in math for many years and she continued
to study it and then she felt like she
was really making progress and learning
and then I believe she gave her all and
failed on her AP test right yeah and
then she decided well I'm gonna keep
learning more I'm gonna keep pushing so
is there a time when you step back and
say do I continue pushing toward this or
do I pivot to something else yeah I
think revisiting that very frequently is
probably a very wise idea and anybody
that's an entrepreneur certainly should
be asking is this the skill set that I
acquire or is this a skill set that I
partner with somebody and so Lisa and I
are a great example of that you and I
are a great example of that where its
people with complementary skill sets
that it's like I'm not I'm not drawn to
managing and thinking through that
process and really going like
when I thought the day that I realized
that there's a difference between being
a leader and a manager was it was
exhilarating and depressing at the same
time it was exhilarating because I could
see the solution to a problem I'd been
creating for myself in business for a
very long time and had not understood it
because when people resonate with the
way that I am dude you're not gonna find
anybody better more encouraging all of
that but the problem is the way that I
encourage is by holding you to a
ridiculously high standard and annoying
the [__] out of you by never flagging on
this is the [__] standard like we got
to do it and constantly bringing people
back round to the mindset the mindset
the mindset but the vast majority of the
world does not resonate with that from
the jump and they need somebody to like
really like walk them through create
processes and procedures to help them
like go from one point to another and
because I'm so hell-bent to do something
with my own life like I
I'm just not drawn to that so that's why
when people like call me a teacher I'm
always like that's not fair to teachers
because teachers like they're willing to
go on that journey like step by step and
really lie in the trenches yeah
and I'm just not like I'm gonna be over
here [__] running and hopefully
inspiring the [__] out of you and
showing you what it's about but I'm
gonna give you like the straight reality
this is the [__] situation and now
you either deal with it or you don't
and so there are countless people that
have pulled me aside and what they
needed was a manager and they pulled me
aside and they said the following I want
to be you in five years and then I made
the mistake of not recognizing what they
really need is somebody to to really
create that path and all of that and so
then I gave them like that
leader [__] like cool all right
[__] you're here with me on the
floor watch how I work watch the
standard that I hold myself to hold
yourself to the same [__] standard
all you have to do is keep up right
that's your job right now and they would
leave that meeting crestfallen because
it wasn't what they were looking for and
feeling like I didn't hear them feeling
like this guy's a dick because and so
after I had done that enough times I
started saying don't say that please
like understand that all I do when
people say that to me
I now instantly hold you to my standard
and I externalize my internal voice and
for most people that's not a lot of fun
so that that's to bring it back around
to your question like I had to realize
that was not a skill that I wanted but
it was such an important skill somebody
on the team had to have it so you always
need to be like checking yourself
against that like what are the skills I
want what are the skills that like I
know are critical but I'm just not like
it's not my personality and
understanding that there's a big
difference between roles and something
being more valuable so being the CEO is
a role it's not more valuable and when
just the other day like if you guys and
I was saying this to the team when you
if you've ever seen that it's usually
done with politicians right the show
like a plank and the politicians
standing over an abyss and the the
populace is usually how it's drawn or
standing on the plank keeping him from
falling and that if they scattered he
would fall the same is true of a CEO
right you you are standing out there and
you were able to do what you're able to
do because you have an amazing team
that's keeping you from falling into the
abyss so I'm just so hyper aware of that
so I know my role is not more important
it's just different and so you've really
got to make sure that you have the
people with the right skill sets or that
you develop it yourself in an Olympia's
case I mean she wanted to maybe I don't
know if she knew at this time but she
was on the path to becoming a rocket
scientist you have to be exceptional at
math to be a rocket scientist so someone
in that scenario where it's like this is
a skill set they need in order to do the
thing that they want to do in life more
than anything else but they're not good
at it what do you do then well it's
super interesting and I don't know what
drew her to math because like she was
saying she didn't set out to be a rocket
scientist so I don't know I my gut
instinct is what drew her to math is it
was hard but attainable and that's like
that sweet spot for humans it's like the
115 goal right it's got to be hard that
when you get it you're gonna be like
[__] yeah we did this right but it can't
be so hard that you just don't even try
so do you know who Ted Kaczynski is yes
who is he isn't he the Unabomber yes do
you know what his rampage was about he
didn't he want to like bring government
back to a basic level know this he was
bombing universities and the reason he
was bombing universities was he believed
that they were solving all of the
problems in the sweet spot and that if
universities kept on at their current
rate there would only be easy problems
that nobody gave a [__] about and really
hard problems that were just too far and
so nobody could ever get that like
amazing I did it man like I worked
really hard and that's one of those like
where the evil guy in the movie are kind
of like he makes a little sense you know
to me and so like look the Unabomber is
just straight [__] crazy but what he
was saying that humans had like there is
this sweet spot of man that was hard but
I feel so good about myself having
persevered and gotten to the answer he's
smack-bang and so my gut is that's where
math was for her and then when you go to
look for a job it's like oh well how
does math really turn itself into a
really cool job and that's how she ends
up at Boeing nice here's just a general
question about the episode and that
you've sort of touched on and already
but what what is it about her mentality
that was the most impactful to you from
this episode what I love about this is
if you really go back and listen to it
this is not a tale of somebody with
natural talent yeah this is a tale of
somebody who found that sweet spot where
things were hard but she could do it
that persevered should to borrow a
dollar 35 to go every day on the bus and
if I remember eyes two hours each way to
get to the tutor who was going to help
her get better at math and the the I
think it was a teacher made the
announcement to the whole class hey
anybody that wants to come you know
these are my hours and she was the only
one that went and she assumed the whole
class would be there and everyone else
lived right there yeah in the
neighborhood so that's me like
understanding that and that
understanding that she then becomes a
tutor and confesses to the person hiring
to be a tutor I don't know how to do
this and that person is like don't worry
sit with them read the book learn it
you'll be surprised like how
advantageous that will be for them and
then that ends up being advantageous for
her and so her life is all about
learning and then she gets hired at
Boeing it feels like she's in over her
head she sees this one guy his name was
Joe something like that she corrects me
in the episode and I [__] forget
again how you say this poor guys name
thou may be its clothes it's in there
and she sees that he is brilliant but
just has too much more work than he can
do and she thinks okay I'm exhausted at
the end of my date but I'm gonna stay
and I'm gonna help him in the hope that
he'll teach me and he does and he takes
her under her wing and informal
mentorship in jobs by the way are like
so correlated to happiness in your job
not formal ones which is very
eye-opening for me is the person that as
the CEO is tempted to like force people
to be in a mentorship relationship can
you describe the difference real quick
yes if I say to you okay chase your
mentor is Jared Jared you need to mentor
chase that's very different than chase
Caesar you're overwhelmed with a bunch
of stuff or yeah I mean this is
literally wills life goes all I know how
to do is move chairs right now but I'm
gonna get in the world with people
gloms onto you realizes that he wants to
learn marketing you take him under your
wing you like get him doing projects
that are way over his head but like
you're super patient with him and you
really work with him and now
legitimately I'll [__] put will in a
deathmatch on IG with like some heavy
hitters in the world of marketing like
for real legit like no question we all
turned to him and he's like a kid he's
just a kid and by the way he moved to
America like a couple years ago which
freaked me out it's like say what cuz he
was like oh I got the hook-up back in
Vietnam and I'm like what do you mean
you have a hookup in Vietnam he's like I
just moved here from Vietnam which is
still too bizarre for words for me but
like that was incredible to watch that
happen in real time and that was
informal mentorship so I think there's
just a deeper connection when you know
you don't have to do it nobody's telling
you to do it and that you it went from
like knowing each other to really
working with each other because you're
connecting right because there's like a
real there's something there and that
trust in that connection not everybody
connects with everybody so when it's
informal it's because the two of them
like found some bond some something
together like she found
with Zhao's ow yeah that was part of the
interview really struck me because it's
more it's not even mentorship it's like
like you said the word bond like she
connected with somebody and then she
said we had each other's back and
there's no better feeling when you're
working on a team when you know there's
people there like you have my back I
have your back we're gonna learn and
grow together we're going to as a team
like accelerate that much faster
individually will accelerate because
we're all sharing knowledge helping each
other teaching each other things we
didn't know it's really cool really cool
really powerful and yeah I mean those
are magical relationships and so I have
a somewhat funny story that's nothing to
do with business or anything I was
living at my mother-in-law's house she
wasn't my mother in lots of time she was
my fianc's mother amazing human being
and she was having carpet replaced and I
remember and the guy was there doing it
and she comes up like flustered and
she's like will you come the the carpet
they're trying to put down is like all
messed up and I just need you to like
back me up because the guy's saying
there's nothing wrong with it
and so I'm like hell yeah like go
downstairs and my mother-in-law has
really had to learn to stand up for
herself as you know a divorced woman
with three kids and like she just really
had to learn to be tough so that people
didn't take advantage of her and all the
sudden she's also just incredibly sweet
so well when you look at this woman like
if you're a bad person you're gonna want
to take advantage of her she seems like
an easy mark
she is not I assure you but she she had
to train herself into that so I go
downstairs and I look at the carpet and
it looks [__] perfect and she's like
look see see like look at all the lines
in the carpet and and I'm like [__] [__]
like I'm really trying to see what she's
talking about and I just don't see it
and the carpet looks perfect and so I'm
looking at it and I'm like yeah this is
crazy like I can't believe it cuz you I
got to have her back right and to know
that somebody's gonna go to bat for you
like even when internally they're like
uh like you may be off base on this it
is a great [__] feeling and that's
why I talk about in a marriage like man
you should feel like they're number one
you should know that there
have your back no matter what yeah
really good feeling awesome here's a
question from opal Ridge homes can i as
a parent get trapped in what happened to
Olympia when the doctor said she would
be on TV I think that the doctor was too
specific on her possibilities I I get
what she's saying like you're painting a
vision that may not be authentic to that
person I think if we all sort of reach
into the minds of the doctor first of
all this is back in the 80s so being on
TV was like unimaginably cool it's not
like now where there are other outlets
and all that stuff and it was just him
I'm sure trying to be sweet about you're
gonna be as beautiful as people on TV
that's all he was really trying to say
and whether it should be or not that's
very meaningful especially the young
women and so yeah I don't you know
inevitably unless you follow Carol
Dweck's advice and always reward only
the process and never like the talent or
anything like that there is for sure
like when you tell somebody like I'm
sure somebody told me I was funny when I
was a kid and that sent me on a spiral
into wanting to be the funny guy and I
know for a fact that part of what turned
my interest in filmmaking into a
fascination it's not what turned it into
a passion but what took me from
interested in filmmaking to fascinated
by filmmaking my dad said I think you're
actually better behind the camera than
you are in front of the camera and I
thought really so then I when my friends
and I would go out with the camcorder
and film stuff like I thought yeah like
I am the one that knows where to put the
camera so I'll start putting the camera
and none of my friends wanted to do it
so and that like he said that to me when
I was 12 and the funny thing is when I
tell people I've known I wanted to be a
filmmaker since the time I was 12 every
time I think of my dad saying that
because that was like that thing that
like put it on my radar so there's no
question like little weird offhanded
comments like that can really echo
through somebody's life and usually it's
negative usually somebody accidentally
says something like wow your your your
braces look weird and then like you
[__] derail forever and you think
you're ugly and so and that's a terrible
example but there we've all had like
that weird offhanded comment that like
stuck with us for
years and years and years so you do have
to be careful reason 462 I don't have
kids
butterfly effect I'm terrified that some
random comment echoes but that does
bring it all around to what you were
talking about in the beginning of this
which was your environment the people
you're around are super important yeah
so I mean yeah especially when you're
young dude
it is crazytown how it just slowly
slowly creates a belief system in you
yeah it's nuts
awesome well we are out of time for
today all right well guys and gals thank
you so much for joining us this was
amazing
I apologize for hand-holding the mic but
actually hopefully the diehards in the
crowd get it you just got to keep moving
so we didn't miss a beat after we got
things all held together so yeah that's
it move forward even when it's imperfect
it doesn't matter thank you guys for
joining us and that by the way it's a
great episode for this to have happened
on because that is Olympia's whole
message like just keep going keep
getting better don't worry about
failures just keep pushing get that
knowledge so yeah this was a great one I
hope you guys enjoyed it thank you for
joining us don't forget that we've got
that contest kicking off so keep your
eyes open if you haven't already added
me to your alexa daily flash briefing go
do that right now just tell your Alexa
to add Tom bill you to your flash
briefing and she should get it
immediately if not going to be app
search for my name there I Shelby I
record content for that I don't record
it daily but we've got daily content it
is recorded specifically for that day so
go out and get on that it's pretty cool
alright if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
[Music]